## CRUD Section Introduction

In this section we're going to walk through how to implement the full set of CRUD features into your database.

CRUD stands for Create, Read, Update and Delete.

So what that essentially means is you're going to be able to add records to your database, run SQL queries, and be able to see what is contained in your database.

You will be able to edit, update which means to change records in your database. You’ll be able to delete or remove records. So we're going to talk about each one of the statements and how to define them in order to implement that in your database.

## Adding records to a MySQL database

We'll populate our tables with a seed. If we started with guides or addresses we would need a user to connect those to it. We need to choose which schema to use.

In the Workbench, in the query section, we'll write ``USE Schema-Name``.

To add records to a table, we'll write ``INSERT INTO Table-Name(parameter 1, param 2 (...))``

We didn't pass a id as a param because those auto-increment when new records are added.

Now below the INSERT INTO statement we'll pass the values in, so we get this:

```
USE sql_course_schema;

INSERT INTO users(user_name, user_email)
VALUES ("Jane Doe", "email@test.com");
```

Now we can run the query by clicking into the button next to 'save', which is a lightning icon, or by pressing ctrl + enter.

> You don't have to map the column names in the specified order in the table (but you have to type in the name in the name position, the email in the email position, etc), but if no params are passed in you have to write them in the correct order.

> If you have 3 users for example you can't have four addesses because one user would be missing and this would throw an ``1452 error: cannot add or update a child row: a key foreign constrait fails`` type of error.

## How to Query for All Records in a SQL Database

We'll start with the most basic query. After specifying which schema we're using with the USE statement, we'll write this:

```
SELECT *
FROM users;
```

This will return all of our users. The star means that every column is selected with the SELECT keyword. Them, the table is specified with the FROM keyword.

> It's a bad practice to slect everything because there can be hundreds of records.

> We can also select things by writing everything in a single line: ```SELECT * FROM Schema.Table```.

We can also say:

```
SELECT users_name
FROM users;
```

This would bring in the user names. We can also select multiple fields:

```
SELECT users_name, users_email
FROM users;
```

We can also select only a portion of the query by highlighting it and clicking the lightning with the text cursor.

## How to Filter SQL Queries with the: 'where', 'and', 'or' Commands

We'll now do more specific queries with the aid of different keywords. The first one is going to be WHERE.

```
SELECT *
FROM users
WHERE users_email = 'kristine@test.com';
```

So tis would select all the records where the specified condition is true (aka is found)

We can grab the example above to test another keyword, OR.

```
SELECT *
FROM users
WHERE users_email = 'kristine@test.com'
OR users_email = "jordan@test.com";
```

So now two records would be brought in. We can also select more than one parameter:

```
SELECT addresses_state, addresses_city
FROM addresses
WHERE addresses_state = "NY";
```

We can also add the AND operator.

```
SELECT *
FROM addresses
WHERE addresses_state = 'NY'
AND addresses_city = 'Manhattan'
AND addresses_users_id = 1;
```

## Using Limit and Offset in a SQL Query

When you don't want to return a full result set from a query, SQL's LIMIT and offset tools allow you control the records returned. Additionally, the offset parameter allows you to implement features such as pagination in an application.

If we had thousands of records the system would crash. That's why the LIMIT keyword exists.

```
SELECT *
FROM users
LIMIT 10;
```

So despite having thousands of users, this would grab only 10.

However, LIMIT has optional arguments. We can say this:

```
SELECT *
FROM users
LIMIT 5, 10;
```

This brings records between 7 and 16. The 5 is actually an offset and it's used in paginations. So 10 records are brought in while skipping the first 5.

## How to Update Records in SQL with the UPDATE Command

If we want to edit records, we'll use the UPDATE command.
We would write ``UPDATE TableName``.

Then, we would use the SET command, specify the field with the updated content, and then the field or fields using the WHERE command:

```
UPDATE users
SET users_email = "update@test.com"
WHERE users_id = 2;
```

Nothing gets returned when we query this, but if we run a SELECT query containing that id we should see the update:

```
SELECT * FROM users WHERE users_id = 2;

UPDATE users
SET users_email = "update@test.com"
WHERE users_id = 2;
```

We can narrow or queries by adding the AND keyword. This code here:

```
SELECT *
FROM guides;

UPDATE guides
SET guides_title = 'Something Else'
WHERE guides_title = 'Another Post'
AND guides_users_id = 2;

UPDATE guides
SET guides_title = 'Something Else Again'
WHERE guides_title = 'Something Else'
AND guides_users_id = 1;
```

Would select all the guides, then search for the specified guide that has that exact id, and would perform the update.
If we typed OR, the system would look for all of the matching titles OR IDs, so more than one item would be updated. In the second case, one of the two conditions isn't true, so nothing happens.

## Using BEGIN and ROLLBACK to Revert Queries in MySQL

In this guide we're going to examine how to leverage MySQL's BEGIN and ROLLBACK commands in order to give our script the ability to revert back to a previous stage.

Now, this syntax differs between the SQL implementations.

If we typed this,

```
USE devcamp_sql_course_schema;

UPDATE guides
SET guides_title = 'Oops'
WHERE guides_id = 1;
```

There would be no way of reverting this change if we executed that. To prevent this, we must type this at the beginning of our script:

```
USE devcamp_sql_course_schema;

BEGIN;
UPDATE guides
SET guides_title = 'Oops'
WHERE guides_id = 1;
```

Now if we did a SELECT query the error would appear, but we have the BEGIN statement. If we type this:

```
BEGIN;
UPDATE guides
SET guides_title = 'Oops'
WHERE guides_id = 1;

SELECT *
FROM guides;

ROLLBACK;
```

And we run first the Rollback portion and then the SELECT one, the error will be gone.

## How to Query for Unique Values in a SQL Database

This guide walks through how to query for unique records in a SQL database by leveraging the distinct filter. We want to be able to filter out duplicates.

To find unique values, we'll say:

```
SELECT distinct TableField
FROM Table;
```

This will filter all the unique values, leaving ot the duplicates. We can choose more than one field.

## How to Use ORDER BY and CAST in MySQL

We can sort the data from the columns that we query. In order to do that we're going to select the desired text field and the table, and say:

```
SELECT Column
FROM Table
ORDER BY Column Params
```

Params: desc(ending), asc(ending)

If we sort numbers, there will be bugs because the system will treat them as varchars. To fix this we need to use casting.

```
SELECT Numeric_Column
FROM Table
ORDER BY CAST(Numeric_Column AS UNSIGNED) Params
```

This way, numbers will be ordered.

## Guide to Deleting Records from a SQL Database

To delete records, first we need to select them. It's a good idea to use a begin/rollback pair, just in case.

```
SELECT *
FROM users
WHERE users_id = 199;

BEGIN;
DELETE FROM users
WHERE users_id = 199;
rollback;
```

If we run the Delete portion and then select the user again, the entry will be gone.