## SET and GET commands

When typing SET, we'll already have some values.

``SET key value [Optional params]``

 Optional params go between [].

 We can store data inside the key and value. For example: ``Set page_name 'About us'``. page_name is the key, and About us the value.

 We can also get the data by typing ``GET key``. So if we return ``GET page_name``, we'll get the About us string.

 ## Key Structure Design in Redis

 You can give unique IDs to keys to quickly refer them by typing: ``SET ID:key``. To return data, type ``GET ID:key``. If we had multiple color keys, IDs allow us to distinguish them.

 ## Incrementing and Decrementing Values in Redis

 If that whole naming strategy looks weird to you in the majority of cases you're not going to be doing that manually. What we're going to talk about now is how we can increment and decrement values and how we can do it automatically using redis commands. 

 ``SET post_like_count:42 0``

 To increment the value, we just type ``INCR id:key``.

 > If you give an id to a key, the id gets merged and it's part of the key, so you have to type them both.

 To decrease, type ``DECR id:key``.

 To increment by a hundred for example, and not just one, type ``INCRBY key number``.

 ## Guide to Deleting in Redis with the DEL Command

 To delet items, type ``DEL key``. If we get the data, Redis will return a ``nil`` value.

 ## How to Check if a Key Has Been Set in Redis

 In applications that utilize redis a very common task that needs to be performed is checking to see if a key exists or not.

 Now technically you could just use the get command and if it returns an element then it means that the key exists and if it returns nil then it means that key did not exist. But doing that is a very bad practice because nil has different meanings.

 To check if it exists or not, we can type ``EXISTS key``. If it returns a 1, it exists. If not, it returns a 0.

 ## How to Expire a Key in Redis

Imagine a situation where I know that the main featured image for each post is not going to change on a regular basis.

What I can do is store a reference to this image inside of Redis. This would make for a much faster way of retrieving it as opposed to say storing it in the database. And that's just one example of caching and it's a very high-level version of it.

``SET featured_image "somepicture.png"``.

But we don't want to just have this permanently inside of Redis because if we load Redis up so massively, even though it scales very well for a caching engine, we don't want to keep this reference permanently.

We want to only have this for a certain period of time whether it's a few minutes a few hours or a few days or even a few weeks or months. But we still do want it to expire at some point. 

To do this, type ``EXPIRE key time_value``.

To check the remaining time, type ``TTL key``. When the time is over, it returns a -2. If you try to get the key a nil gets returned.

## Guide to Overriding a Keys Value with GETSET

Keys are not unique, there are also many other times where you need to be able to override a key's value and there are a couple of ways of doing that.

```
SET current_batter 'Altuve'

GET current_batter 
"Altuve"

SET current_batter "Correa"

GET current_batter
"Correa"
```

If we use the GETSET command and set a different value we'll see that the previous key is returned, but that value is now overriden.

## How to Query for Key Names with the KEYS Pattern Command in Redis

We can search for key names in Redis, and there are many ways of doing it.

```KEYS *``` returns all the key names.
``KEYS *value*`` returns all the keys that have that specific value inside of them. You can type just one star to search keys with that value at the beginning or the end. If you want to narrow it more, you can type as many ? as characters do you want to count from.

## Introduction to Hashes in Redis and the HSET Command

A hash is a key value data structure that stores a collection of items. To use them, just type ``HSET key field value``.

So for example we could have this: ```HSET user:123 name "Jane"```

Now we can add more items: ``HSET user:123 email 'kristine@devcamp.com'``. 

To get the data, use the HGET command: 

``HGET user:123 name``, ``HGET user:123 email``

## Common Redis Hash Commands

Now instead of HSET, I'm going to use HMSET and the M stands for multiple. If you noticed it was kind of annoying that I had to create a different field and value for each one of those fields I wanted to add to the key. With HMSET. What we can do is we can actually create one key and then as many fields and values at the same time and this is something that you're most likely going to be using more often than just HSET.

```HMSET user:42 name 'Darth' email 'darth@vader.com'```.

```
HGET user:42 name
"Darth"
```

We also have HMGET. This one returns an array.

```HMGET user:42 name email
1) "Darth"
2) "darth@vader.com"
```

``HGETALL user:42`` will return everything, field and value.

``HKEYS user:42`` returns all the fields of a given key.

``HEXISTS key field`` checks if a field exists or not.

``HSET key field`` adds more fields to the array.

``HINCRBY key field`` increments the values.

``HDEL key field`` deletes the field.

``HLEN key`` counts the number of field-value pairs.